<a href="http://www.charm.net/~pete/pete.cgi">Sampo: The Journal of Abundant Media</a>: "Saving Pvt. Lynch"
<br />
<br />There was a recent posting on <a href="http://www.charm.net/~pete">Sampo</a> about the <a href="http://www.guardian.co.uk/Iraq/Story/0,2763,1081207,00.html">Jessica Lynch debacle</a>. As many know, the Left is using this story to work themselves into a fevered pitch concerning the devilry of the Bush administration, and the Right is essentially ignoring it (which only serves to fuel the conspiracy theory).  However, I'd like to take this time to perhaps look at this situation from a different angle -- for discussion's sake.
<br />
<br /><code>When American Private Jessica Lynch was rescued from an Iraqi hospital 
<br />last April, President George Bush's administration and much of the US media was 
<br />gripped by a dramatic tale of blonde, all-American heroism.</code>
<br />
<br />This article starts immediately on the wrong foot.  I am not overly familiar with the Guardian Unlimited, but this opening quote stinks of Arian undertones.  I've been following this story for a while now, and it doesn't seem to have such a strong smell to me as it does to some.  Certainly, conspiracies based on racial biases are wonderful for generating conversation and especially for large spikes in sales figures all around.  However, I do not find the Jessica Lynch martyrdom to be based in racism, and I'll explain why later.  
<br />
<br /><code>The story reaches fever pitch this week with the publication of Lynch's 
<br />autobiography, a dramatised TV documentary, interviews and a Vanity Fair cover 
<br />story.</code>
<br />
<br />I tend to believe that the term 'documentary' is a misnomer of the highest order.  An NBC sanctioned made for TV movie should never be equated with a proper documentary.  By definition, a documentary is based on fact and is not embellished in any manner.  Of course, there is always some room for artistic freedom in the presentation, but no amount of fiction is allowed within.  At best, the Jessica Lynch NBC treatment is based on rumor, misdirection, and aggrandization.  Perhaps I am being too critical here?
<br />
<br /><code>Beneath the gloss of the US media and the machinations of an 
<br />administration eager to show a 'good news' angle of the Iraq conflict against the 
<br />reality of a rising body count...
<br />(snip)
<br />...last week she accused the administration of manipulating her story for 
<br />propaganda</code>
<br />
<br />Such is the way of war-time propaganda.  Of course the administration wants a feel good story.  Everyone wants a feel good story concerning the progress of a war where one is embroiled in a bloody conflict with adversaries hell-bent on destroying countrymen.  The fact that the administration ran with the story does not mean that the story originated with them.  One can recite conspiracy theories all night long about the possibility that the tales of Lynch's blaze of glory was a Washington ruse, but the proof is not there.  The story itself seems to have materialized from the ether -- at least it might as well have been.  Journalists rarely reveal sources, therefore the original source of the story may never be known.
<br />
<br /><code>accusations that she'd been raped were disputed by appalled Iraqi 
<br />doctors who first treated her</code>
<br />
<br />Ms. Lynch has said that she was not conscious during the time of the supposed rape.  Iraqi doctors say no to rape, while the coalition doctors in Germany told her that she was.  Who is lying?  Why would the doctors tell her that she was raped unless there was evidence of it being true?  I hesitate to mention this angle at all because the revelation of it seems timed to coincide with both a book release and a made for TV movie.  My only comment is that this has degenerated into a case of 'our word' versus theirs.  
<br />
<br /><code>and the army was accused of insensitivity and racism for awarding 
<br />Lynch a full disability pension while others from her ambushed maintenance 
<br />company, including Shoshana Johnson, the black cook wounded and captured 
<br />by Iraqis, will receive barely a third of Lynch's discharge package.</code>
<br />
<br />This list also includes four white males.  If racism were the driving factor, then why would white males (notoriously the darling of history) be shafted as well?  The focus on Spc. Johnson is a product of the influence of Rev. Jesse Jackson.  Should she receive the same compensation as Ms. Lynch?  Of course, so should Pfc. Miller, Sgt. Riley, Spc. Hernandez (why is there no cry of racism from the Latino community?), Spc. Hudson (why is there no cry of racism from the Filipino community), Officer Williams, and Officer Young.  Isn't it likely that cries of racism are a byproduct of the machinations of the Reverend?  I do not know why Lynch was singled out for her compensation amount, but racism does not appear to be a factor.
<br />
<br /><code>he was not rescued in a 'blaze of gunfire' as reported by Defence 
<br />Department officials last April</code>
<br />
<br />Again, this agrandization is being pegged to the administration, when there is no evidence that it originated there.  In fact, there appeared to be many references to the rescue occuring in a 'blaze of gunfire' at the time of the incident, yet none were ever contributed to quotes from an administration official.  In fact, even <a href="http://www.aljazeerah.info/News%20archives/2003%20News%20archives/April%202003%20News/4%20news/Lynch%20Rescue%20Followed%20Hospital%20Tip-Off%20aljazeerah.info.htm">Al Jazeerah</a> used the phrase in question, yet never flags it as an official statement.  
<br />
<br /><code>She was not raped, as the department said</code>
<br />
<br />Earlier in the article it was said that the accusations of rape were in dispute, but now they are tagged as outright lies.  It cannot be both ways.  This particular report from the Guardian has contradicted itself; and this my friends is a bad sign.  In addition, the article lambasts the administration for basing the account of Ms. Lynch on speculation and misdirection, yet goes about trying to drive this point home by using the exact same tactics.  
<br />
<br /><code>'The White House sent a message that they were going to tell the 
<br />good news stories so now we have a situation where we are not allowed 
<br />to witness the coffins coming home and there are no images of young soldiers 
<br />coming home missing arms and legs,' said Steve Robinson of the National Gulf 
<br />War Resource Centre.</code>
<br />
<br />Mr. Robinson should perhaps take a moment to reflect on the purpose that the desired images of coffins and mutilated limbs will serve.  Perhaps they will shock the American (and British for that matter) public into standing against the war, but most likely they will serve to boost the ratings of any and all media source providing said pictures.  What are we talking about here?  The administration has not banned talk of war casualties.  In fact, I open the news everyday to a running body count.  The numbers are no mystery to me.  I find it appalling that media sources are crying over the restriction of using the suffering of others as a method to sell a few more fish wraps.  I applaud the decision.  If it were my leg shattered at the kneecap, then I would be very reluctant to provide full color spreads in order to escalate ratings for the media and ammunition to those in opposition to the administration. 
<br />
<br /><code>'We're just seeing one side of the story, and you've got to tell the other 
<br />side, the one about the wounded, maimed and the dead.'</code>
<br />
