A fax sent to Roy Horn from <a href="http://www.peta.org" target="viewer">PETA</a> on October 6th, 2003.
<br />
<br /><i>Roy Horn and Siegfried Fischbacher<br />c/o University Medical Center Community Relations<br />1800 W. Charleston Blvd.<br />Las Vegas, NV 89102
<br />
<br />Dear Roy and Siegfried:
<br />
<br />First, let me express our best wishes and sincere hope that Roy will make a full recovery. 
<br />
<br />As you might imagine, our warm wishes also include a plea to get out of the sad business of breaking the spirit of wild animals and forcing them to perform. Perhaps Friday’s frightening incident will make you realize that a brightly lit stage with pounding music and a screaming audience is not the natural habitat for tigers, lions, or any other exotic animals. The only natural thing that happened on that stage was that this majestic animal lashed out against a captor who was beating him with a microphone because he wouldn’t do a trick. No matter how much you say that you love the wild animals whom you have confined continents away from their natural homes, you are still the men who have subjugated their wills and natures to further your own careers. 
<br />
<br />We, as well as thousands who’ve called us from around the world, urge you and the Mirage to use some of the millions of dollars you’ve made from exotic animals to build a state-of-the-art sanctuary and immediately retire Montecore and all the other animals in your compound. You are now in a unique position to show the world both that you have lived and learned and that you have true respect for animals by leaving them some shred of the life that nature intended.
<br />
<br />
<br />Sincerely,
<br />
<br />Dan Mathews<br />Vice President
<br /></i>
<br />
<br />Take from this what you will.
<br />-m
<br />