<p style="margin-bottom: 0in;">It's that time of the year and the resolutions are flying.  How many of us will stick to our convictions this year?  Last new year I was way too freaking busy to think of any resolutions, so I'm happy to say that for the first time none of my resolutions were ignored, however my success ratio is <a target="_blank" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Division_by_zero">undefined</a>.  2007 looks to be an interesting year, and if I can hit 50% of my resolutions then it is almost a certainty.  Below I make public record of my 2007 resolutions, not only for myself, but for my 6 loyal readers.  <a></a></p>
<p style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><strong> Turn my 15,000 word novel into 50,000 words</strong></p>
<p style="margin-bottom: 0in;">My <a href="http://www.nanowrimo.org/">NaNoWriMo</a> entry didn't quite meet the mark of 50K, but I was happy that I managed to spew out 3x more than I expected that I would.  This year however I hope to meet the mark.  Hopefully, given the extended time available to me, the overall quality should improve (F.L.W).</p>
<p style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><strong> Spar more</strong></p>

<p style="margin-bottom: 0in;">With the birth of Keita, my life has been a whirlwind of panic, exhaustion, and confusion.  To add insult to injury, my health and conflicts with my chosen dojang have been big roadblocks to wrapping up my black belt.  Now I am not going so far as proclaiming my intentions for getting the ever elusive belt, but I think it would be nice to spar more as nothing keeps you on your toes more, and nothing is better for training purposes.  Private sessions in the back yard coupled with reuniting with my first (and finest) <a target="_blank" href="http://www.vamai.com/">instructor</a> should help me meet this particular goal.</p>
<p style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><strong>Cleanse the iTunes Library</strong></p>
<p style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Let's just say that my iTunes library has become tainted and 2007 will be the year to fix that.</p>
<p style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><strong> Post more technical content</strong></p>
<p style="margin-bottom: 0in;">The modus ponens blog is moving more toward my ideal, but it has a long way to go before it finally gets there.  However, posting more technical content should move me in the direction I wish to aim.  I'm hoping to use this blog (as well as the minotaur <a target="_blank" href="http://www.minotaurcomputing.com">main</a> site and <a target="_blank" href="http://wiki.minotaurcomputing.com">wiki</a>) as an organizing force for my thoughts on tech and in particular programming, but I do not want to restrict it solely to that.  There are a wide range of interesting topics to explore including: osdev, programming languages, osx, *nix, bsd, 3D, cryptology, chess programming, processes, hiring practices, and crpgs.  Throw in a smattering of anecdotes, comics, math, lock picking, book and film reviews, and music and I may actually turn modus ponens into a blog that I might want to visit from time to time.  Hopefully, others will feel the same.  One thing to avoid in 2007... politics.  There are 7 billion political blogs on the internets and I simply have nothing interesting or original to add to the fold, therefore I will try my utmost to avoid them altogether.  If anyone truly cares about my political ideas, then I invite he or she to come to my home with a nice bottle of wine and we shall talk face to face.  Anyone?  Hello? ....</p>

<p style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><strong>Create a personal timeline</strong></p>
<p style="margin-bottom: 0in;">In a continual effort to understand and modify... me (let's call it life hacking)... I think it might be a good idea to create a personal timeline of my life which may help me to understand my own eccentricities and quirks.  Couldn't hurt anyway.  Why did I get into that fight with Jeremy in the high school cafeteria in 1999?  I have no idea!  Perhaps a personal timeline could help to shed some light on the matter.  Call me morbid, but a personal timeline might give my son something to help understand his father should I ever fall off of a cliff or something.</p>
<p style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><strong>Play the guitar again</strong></p>
<p style="margin-bottom: 0in;">It has been 3+ years since I've touched a guitar even though there is one sitting right in the living room.  I have to start playing again... I miss it.  I've been in the mood to learn some classic folk tunes and blue songs like Wabash Cannonball, Motherless Child, Sidewalks of NY, Mannish Boy, and ...Baby One More Time.
</p>
<p style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><strong> Be a better father and husband</strong></p>
<p style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Because they deserve a better me.</p>
<p style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><strong>Program more</strong></p>
<p style="margin-bottom: 0in;">At work and at home, I absolutely must write more code.  The past year has been a nice experiment in use cases, sequence diagrams, and context diagrams, but that should end... and quick.  The world is filled with mediocre use cases, there is no need to contribute my share... code are my home.</p>

<p style="margin-bottom: 0in;">-m</p>
