While listening to [Advaitic Songs by Öm](https://www.amazon.com/Advaitic-Songs-Om/dp/B0083GJ1M6/?tag=fogus-20) and reading the ACM article "[Teaching two programming languages in the first CS course](https://cacm.acm.org/blogs/blog-cacm/228006-teaching-two-programming-languages-in-the-first-cs-course/fulltext)" it reminded me of my faux lesson plan for a college course that no one would ever hire me to teach. In this course students would indeed use and learn two programming languages: one language used to write another language. Preferably the two languages would be of differing paradigms, e.g. procedural -> functional, functional -> logical. The reason for this is that the implemented language should expose the downfalls of the implementation language for certain kinds of problems, and vice versa. I have not written a syllabus.

As a kid my mother worked with a guy who was into [cracking Commodore 64 games](https://paleotronic.com/2018/06/15/confessions-of-a-disk-cracker-the-secrets-of-4am/). Since I had a C64 he told her that he'd be happy to hook me up with free software and sent her home with a 30+ page list of warez that he had in his collection. I remember looking at the list and drooling at the long list of games that he had, but for some reason I was more interested in checking out the "business software." I had played games and I knew what they had to offer, but business software was a different beast. So one day he sent a few disks home jam packed with word processors, spreadsheets, tax software, and the like. I spent hours exploring those programs (without manuals) and feel like I learned a lot about interface design and revelatory purpose in software. I guess I'm just not much of a game player.

:F
