<p>They only came at night.  Or that&#8217;s what we thought anyway.  We were staying at an old mansion located near my childhood home, and the weather was arctic (the reason never mentioned).  We were running out of food, and after a few days the electricity went dark, never to come back on.  The next night, the observers came.  We noticed their footprints in the snow at first, but eventually we would begin to sense them watching us.  We could feel them in the rooms with us, and could hear the footsteps in the night.  As is expected, this really frightened us, but the need for food overwhelmed any fears.  Eventually, we came across some food (the how is not clear anymore) and although it helped to keep us alive, it provoked the observers into taking a more active role.  The same night they came and became very violent toward the weakest of the group, and in one case took a person with them.  At that point it was decided that we would sleep during the day, and generate light in the darkness with fire as it was assumed that they despised the light.  This seemed to work for the first day, for it seemed as if the observers kept a distance to the fire, although we could all sense that they were still watching us from afar, and our theory was validated by the cluster of footprints found by some in the morning.  We followed this same routine for a week and every night it was the same; the observers always came and always watched.  However, one night they were no longer watching; we could feel that they were no longer lurking at the perimeter of light.    A few days passed without incident and spirits were high based on that.  Unfortunately, we soon learned that our initial theory was incorrect and the observers were not afraid of the light.  As we quickly learned, they instead changed their strategy and came at us during the day, when the majority was now sleeping.  As before, they preyed upon the weak and stole away half of the group.  As this was occuring, the remainders noticed that at certain light angles one could see a faint outline of what appeared to be a military uniform shirt.  This would soon disappear however, as the observers would always move.  The next day came and again the observers came, taking the remainder of the group except me.  Fear and desperation almost overtook me waiting for the next day, and as it turned out the observers indeed came.  This day they were much more bold, and did not take efforts to hide themselves as they outnumbered me 2 to 1.  I tried to ask them what they wanted, but they simply stood and stared for hours, guarding the exit to the room where I was trapped.  Eventually, I realized that escape was futile and in frustration and a desire for a resolution I rushed one of the observers, knocking it to the ground.  As a tore at it with my hands and teeth I could sense that the second observer simply watched.  As I ripped at the now helpless observer that I had pinned it made no sounds of pain nor fought to be released; it simply allowed me to tear it to ribbons and eventually died the way that it had lived, in complete silence.  When I turned to confront the second observer, I saw that it was fleeing from the room.  I followed it throughout the mansion, only catching glimpses of that shirt in the light.  This chase went on for a few minutes, eventually ending in the dining hall where what I saw made me stop.  The light from the giant sunroof in the dining hall highlighted more than a 2 dozen faint shirts known to be worn by the observers.  At that moment of realization of impending doom the sun crawled beneath the horizon cutting out the remaining light and also causing every shirt to disappear into the darkness.  The last sound that I remember before waking was that of many footsteps rapidly rushing toward me.<br />
-m
</p>