<b>The Search is Over</b>
<br />  <a href="http://abcnews.go.com/wire/World/ap20040716_283.html">Bobby Fischer has been detained in Japan</a> for passport violations, and will be deported to the USA.  For those unaware, Fischer is considered by many to be the greatest chess player to ever live.  While that is certainly debatable, his immense contribution to the game (both technically, and folklore) is not.  Since his disappearance in 1975, he has only popped up a handful of times.  He played a tournament in Yugoslavia (the source of his current trouble) with his old nemesis Boris Spassky, patent and new form of chess clock, and made occasional appearances to display his rabid anti-semitism (although his mother was Jewish) and paranoia.  The details of his predicament are as follows:
<br />  
<br />  <i><i>On September 1, 1992, Bobby Fischer came out of his 20 year retirement and gave a press conference in Yugoslavia. He pulled out an order from the U.S. Treasury Department warning him that he would be violating U.N sanctions if he played Chess in Yugoslavia. He spit on the order and now faces ten years in prison and a $250,000 fine if he returns to the U.S. In addition, he must forfeit his $3.65 million to the U.S. Treasury and forfeit 10% of any match royalties earned. On September 30, Bobby Fischer began his rematch with Boris Spassky in Sveti Stefan, Yugoslavia. The match was organized by banker Jedzimir Vasiljevic. On November 11, Fischer won the match with 10 wins, 5 losses, and 15 draws. He received $3.65 million for his winnings and Spassky received $1.5 million.</i></i>
<br />  
<br />  If there here is one thing that I have learned in my life; it's that the USA tends not to take actions like those described lightly.  Go figure.  
<br />  
<br />  The actual Treasury Department letter is as follows:
<br />  
<br />  <i>Department of the Treasury
<br />  <p><i> Washington
<br /> Aug 21, 1992
<br /> Order to Provide Information and Cease and Desist Activities</i></p>  <p>  <i>FAC No. 129405</i></p>  <p>  <i>Dear Mr Fischer:</i></p>  <p>  <i>It has come to our attention that you are planning to play a chess match for a cash prize in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) (hereinafter "Yugoslavia") against Boris Spassky on or about September 1, 1992. As a U.S. citizen, you are subject to the prohibitions under Executive Order 12810, dated June 5, 1992, imposing sanctions against Serbia and Montenegro. The United States Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control ("FAC"), is charged with enforcement of the Executive Order.</i></p>  <p>  <i>The Executive Order prohibits U.S. persons from performing any contract in support of a commercial project in Yugoslavia, as well as from exporting services to Yugoslavia. The purpose of this letter is to inform you that the performance of your agreement with a corporate sponsor in Yugoslavia to play chess is deemed to be in support of that sponsor's commercial activity. Any transactions engaged in for this purpose are outside the scope of General License No. 6, which authorizes only transactions to travel, not to business or commercial activities. In addition, we consider your presence in Yugoslavia for this purpose to be an exportation of services to Yugoslavia in the sense that the Yugoslav sponsor is benefitting from the use of your name and reputation.</i></p>  <p>  <i>Violations of the Executive Order are punishable by civil penalties not to exceed $10,000 per violation, and by criminal penalties not to exceed $250,000 per individual, 10 years in prison, or both. You are hereby directed to refrain from engaging in any of the activities described above. You are further requested to file a report with this office with 10 business days of your receipt of this letter, outlining the facts and circumstances surrounding any and all transactions relating to your scheduled chess match in Yugoslavia against Boris Spassky. The report should be addressed to: The U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control, Enforcement Division, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Annex - 2nd floor, Washington D.C. 20220. If you have any questions regarding this matter, please contact Merete M. Evans at (202) 622-2430. </i></p>  <p>  <i>Sincerely, (signed)
<br /> R. Richard Newcomb 
<br /> Director 
<br /> Office of Foreign Assets Control</i></i>
<br /> </p>  <p>In typical Bobby Fischer style, his theory behind his current predicament is worth a read:
<br /> </p>  <p><i><i>But it was in violation, apparently, of an order, an executive order which President Bush had signed, uh, I think in around May of 1992, that forbid Americans to, uh, do business with Yugoslavia, unless, of course, they had permission or an exception from the government, which I didn't get. Everybody got it. CNN gets it, all these Jew controlled outfits get it, and you know, you know how many people were involved in that match, nobody was indicted? Spassky wasn't indicted, he played. The [...] government didn't indict him. And I'll tell you something else about Spassky. He played in that match, nobody indicted him. That guy has been to the U.S. at least a few times since the match. He can go to the U.S. Nobody touches him. He played in the match just like me. The U.S. government doesn't give a damn about arresting him. They only want to arrest me. Eugene was over there. He made a nice pretty penny there. The Philippine government doesn't wanna put him in jail. There were a lot of people involved in that match. Nobody wants to put anybody in jail but me. They wanna put me in jail cause the Jews are behind all this. They're behind everything. They're orchestrating everything, this, uh, indictment, this movie, the forged Batsford edition of My 60 Memorable Games, this fake forged book, called umm uh, I mean CD-Rom called Bobby Fischer Teaches Chess. Now they're behind this mega-robbery of all my stuff at the Pasadena storage house, the robbery and auctioning off of all this stuff. You know, they grabbed this stuff on the cheapest, meanest trick. The most transparent ploy you can imagine. This fuckin Elsworth, deliberately, they used a secret Jew I'm sure...deliberately, behind my back, just stopped paying for six months. I sent him the check. You saw the check, Pablo.</i></i>
<br /> </p>  <p>While I certainly do not subscribe to his Jew-conspiracy theory, he does make a good point.  There were many people who profited from his match with Spassky (including Spassky himself), yet no one else was indicted.  Weird.
<br /> </p>  Anyway, this is simply the latest (and perhaps the beginning of the end) of the story of Bobby Fischer.  It's sad really.
<br />  -m
<br />