<span style="font-weight: bold;">
<br /></span></span>To me, the best music ever created was done during my formidable years (between 8 and 20) and the 60s.  In my mind nothing can beat early Beastie Boys, Metallica, Iron Maiden, Black Sabbath, Nine Inch Nails, Ministry, Misfits, Dead Kennedys, Fugazi, The Doors, Bad Religion, Bob Dylan, Devo, Helmet, The Cure, The Smiths, Neil Young, Nirvana, Tool, Pink Floyd, Pixies, Shelter, Shudder to Think, Sonic Youth, The Toasters, etc...  That's not to say that great music hasn't been created since then, it just seems to be less frequent.  Therefore, in hopes if sounding less like a crotchety old man, I present the greatest artists making music in the recent past:
<br /><ul>   <li>Linkin Park</li>   <ul>     <li>At the moment these guys are making pure gold.  They have regular rotation in my playlists and look to stay there for quite a while.
<br />    </li>   </ul>   <li>Boards of Canada</li>   <ul>     <li>Ditto
<br />    </li>   </ul>   <li>50 Cent</li>   <ul>     <li>Charming gangsta rap.  Although it's nothing that hasn't been done thousands of times before, it's catchy so his name may stay around longer than say Onyx.
<br />    </li>   </ul>   <li>The Hives</li>   <ul>     <li>Iggy Pop-esque power chords.  Yuki and I tried to see them a while back but the show was sold out... I guess they are more popular than I thought.
<br />    </li>   </ul>   <li>Outkast</li>   <ul>     <li>Where the hell did these guys come from?  For a long time I thought they were redneck metal based solely on the name and weird album font.  One day, they released a double album and I was blown away.
<br />    </li>   </ul>   <li>Peach</li>   <ul>     <li>Justin Chancellor's (Tool) side band.  Pretty good, but nowhere near the level of his main band.</li>   </ul>   <li>A Perfect Circle</li>   <ul>     <li>Maynard James Keenan's (Tool) side band.  Much better than Peach above and comparable with Tool itself.  I saw these guys at American University (and ran into a few ex-SMCMers: Donny and Tim) and they were sublime.</li>   </ul><a name="b00004t99z7499"><span class="serif"></span></a></><li>Saves the Day</li>   <ul>     <li>Pop-punk at its best.  Yuki and I did get a chance to see these guys at 9:30 and they were quite good.  We felt old however.
<br />    </li>   </ul>   <li>System of a Down</li>   <ul>     <li>Frantic rock/metal that is shockingly good.
<br />    </li>   </ul>   <li>Tsunami Bomb</li>   <ul>     <li>This is one of Yuki's recent favorites.  The female vocalist could easily kick my ass.
<br />    </li>   </ul>   <li>Sigur Ros</li>   <ul>     <li>Haunting Icelandic theme music for the apocalypse.</li>   </ul> </ul> -m
<br />
<br /><span style="font-weight: bold;"><span style="font-weight: bold;"></span></span>