Just received word from my professor that I will be able to take his course, <i>Knowledge Engineering and Cognitive modeling</i> in spite of the fact that I have not formally taken the prerequisite.  He appeared to be happy with my background in the matter (OO Analysis and Design).  Starting January 20, 2004 I will be immersed in:
<br />
<br /><code>605.748 Knowledge Engineering and Cognitive Modeling 
<br />This course provides an overview of two important interdisciplinary areas that have become closely interwoven in recent years with computer science and related subjects such as human-machine systems design. The Knowledge Engineering (KE) part of the course introduces various formalisms for knowledge representation and organization such as semantic nets, Bayesian networks, scripts, case-based systems, and ontologies. Methods for turning knowledge into software are discussed, including relative advantages, disadvantages, and boundaries of applicability of the KE formalisms. The Cognitive Modeling (CM) part of the course centers on facilitating user cognitive performance in complex dynamic tasks, and reviews models of memory, learning, and decision making. A special emphasis is placed on recent advances in modeling task comprehension, cognitive complexity reduction, and information presentation for improved comprehension. Finally, the KE and CM topics are brought together in discussing knowledge-based data access and knowledge discovery in large data sets. Examples of practical applications are used to explain theoretical concepts.</code>
<br />
<br />I should finish my own projects (Bayesian and C++ kernel) quickly!
<br />-m
<br />