<b>Censorship A Go-Go</b>
<br />
<br /><a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2004/05/05/national/05DISN.html?position=&ei=5006&en=89982416bdce50c0&ex=1084334400&adxnnl=1&partner=ALTAVISTA1&pagewanted=print&adxnnlx=1083758426-5+KKmNXbCSn7DBzKk2eeCw">Michael Moore</a> gets shafted; by Disney.  Some quotes:
<br />
<br /><code>It's not in the interest of any major corporation to be dragged into a highly charged partisan political battle"</code>
<br />
<br />Really?  Since when?
<br />
<br /><code>A senior Disney executive elaborated that the company had the right to quash Miramax's distribution of films if it deemed their distribution to be against the interests of the company. The executive said Mr. Moore's film is deemed to be against Disney's interests not because of the company's business dealings with the government but because Disney caters to families of all political stripes and believes Mr. Moore's film, which does not have a release date, could alienate many.</code>
<br />
<br />Disney/Miramax, a company long concerned about alienating their audience, has in the past distributed innocuous films such as:
<br />- Pulp Fiction (with educational, "Holiest of the holys" scene)
<br />- Kill Bill (with family-friendly Yakuza slaughter scene)
<br />- Gangs of New York (with the family-friendly disembowelment ending)
<br />- Halloween: Resurrection 
<br />- Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back (drugs make me cool)
<br />- Trainspotting (drugs make me cool)
<br />- Clerks (grandma likes the corpse-sex angle)
<br />
<br /><code>Disney, which bought Miramax more than a decade ago, has a contractual agreement with the Miramax principals, Bob and Harvey Weinstein, allowing it to prevent the company from distributing films under certain circumstances, like an excessive budget or an NC-17 rating.</code>
<br />
<br />Maybe all the CGI in Moore's film is the cause?
<br />
<br /><code>the film describes financial connections between the Bush family and its associates and prominent Saudi Arabian families that go back three decades</code>
<br />
<br />So?  The Saudis are our friends... they love us.  I have at least 5 or 6 friends from prominent Saudi Arabian families.
<br />
<br /><code>Mr. Eisner expressed particular concern that it would endanger tax breaks Disney receives for its theme park, hotels and other ventures in Florida, where Mr. Bush's brother, Jeb, is governor.</code>
<br />
<br />Uhhhhhh.  EEP!
<br />
<br />Disney's position seems pretty lame if you ask me.  I would have a lot more respect for them if they simply came out and said, "there are a lot of people who do not agree with Moore, so we're pulling its distribution because we are afraid that the backlash may cut into future profits."  Don't tell me that you don't want to alienate me and then release Halloween: Resurrection; it rings hollow.
<br />
<br />-m
<br />