I would never vote for Al Sharpton, but the following snippet below illustrates why I think that he's important:
<br /><pre>
<br />SHARPTON: I want us to be able to respond, or then tell us you want a two-way debate.
<br />
<br />RATHER: Here's where the thing is. We certainly want to hear, I think you will agree, the voters have spoken.
<br />
<br />SHARPTON: No, the voters have not spoken. We've only had -- he's won one primary. He's come in fourth seven 
<br />times.
<br />
<br />BUMILLER: How many delegates...
<br />
<br />SHARPTON: What you're trying to do is trying to decide for the voters how we go forward. The voters need to hear 
<br />this morning from four candidates, or say the media now is going to select candidates.
<br />
<br />RATHER: Reverend, we've heard from you, we're going to hear from you. I don't understand what the argument is.
<br />
<br />SHARPTON: I had to fight to speak on Haiti, I had to fight to speak on trade. You got a guy with one primary that 
<br />you're pretending he's -- Gary Hart won more primaries than Mondale.
<br />
<br />Let's have an open debate and go into Super Tuesday, or say that you guys want to decide the nominee.
<br />
<br />RATHER: Reverend, debate them, not me.
<br />
<br />SHARPTON: If I get time, I would love to do that.
<br />
<br />RATHER: You've been on, but the clock's been running on you. I wanted to hear what you had to say...
<br />
<br />KERRY: Can I just finish?
<br />
<br />RATHER: Finish what you have to say, Senator, then we're going to go to Reverend Sharpton.
<br /></pre>
<br /><font size="-2">via <a href="http://www.drudgereport.com/flash4.htm">Drudge</a></font>
<br />